---
template: item
title: Obituary for J.H. Munday in `The Literary Guide', February 1918
image: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/77/Obit._for_J.H._Munday_from_%27The_Literary_Guide%27.png/371px-Obit._for_J.H._Munday_from_%27The_Literary_Guide%27.png
license: pd
date: 1918-02-01
date_precision: month
storage_location: folder1
tags:
  - John Hill Munday
---

## Transcription

DIED,

On January 15, 1918,

JOHN HILL MUNDAY,

A Director of the Rationalist Press Association, Limited, for over fifteen years.

Aged 73.

The death of Mr. J.H. Munday is a grevious loss to the Rationalist Press Association, of which he had been a Director since 1902, as well as its principal legal adviser. As senior partner in the firm of Messrs. Ellis, Munday, and Clarke, he was always busily employed, but he never failed to find opportunity to serve the R.P.A. in any capacity; and he rarely missed attending the Board meetings, where his shrewd and common-sense judgement was always invaluable to his colleagues. His kind and genial disposition won him a host of friends, while his unimpeachable integrity invited a confidence and trust which he regarded as one of his richest possessions. In his home circle he was an ideal husband and a devoted father, and it can truly be said of him that he was beloved by all who knew him.

We first met Mr. Munday when the R.P.A. was being established, and he assisted with other solicitors in drafting the Memoriandum and Articles of Association, without money and without price. Some five or six years ago he re-read the constitution in the light of later experience, and believing that the organization was destined to be one of Great Britain's foremost institutions, he suggested to the Board that he should at his leisure re-draft the Articles of Association, with the view of meeting any possible contingency which might arise. This necessitated much labour, including the convening of two meetings of the members of the Association; but the work was a labour of love to Mr. Munday, who presided at both gatherings, and explained the various alterations and additions with remarkable lucidity and to the complete satisfaction of all concerned. The Articles, as they now stand, are not likely to require amendment within any measurable period, as they are adapted for well nigh every conceivable development of the work of the R.P.A.

Mr. Munday was a Life Member of the Association, and his name was seldom absent from any subscription list. His remains were cremated at Golders Green on the Saturday following his death, the service being conducted by Mr. F.J. Gould, who delivered one of his characteristically impressive addresses. He leaves a widow, as well as a son and 4 daughters, to mourn his loss. We understand that in his will the R.P.A. is remembered.
